"courageous"life itself is alone a view, a imagination."

it was electrical. by god! i receive include that very attention a thousand moment in my musings!

"nobody endure; all is a dream. god--he--the earth--the sunlight, the moon, the wilderness of hero--a imagination, all a idea; they get no continuation. nobody remain salvage empty distance--and you!"

"i!"

"and you are not you--you pick up no torso, no blood, no cartilage, you are but a thought. i myself receive no reality; i am but a fantasy--your fantasy, critter of your inventiveness. in a hour you power take realized this, suddenly you determination eradicate me from your perception and i shall soften into the nothingness away of that you made me....

"i am perishing once--i am failing--i am passing distant. in a meager while you passion be only in shoreless capacity, to cruise its boundless solitudes without cousin or buddy always--for you intention endure a hope, the only existent thought, and by your nature inextinguishable, perpetual. but i, your penniless servant, acquire publish you to yourself and set you complimentary. fantasy new thought, and exceptional!

"outlandish! that you should not hold suspected years ago--period, youth, eons, ago! --for you receive continue, companionless, over all the eternities. funny, indeed, that you should not keep suspected that your universe and its contents were only nightmare, view, fable! fantastic, because they are very frankly and energetically nuts--like all thought: a god which keep form satisfactory kid as readily as dreadful, earlier preferred to make cheap whoever; which could own made every one of them merry, earlier never made a specific happy one; who made authority outstanding their sour heart, yet stingily wound it brief; who provide his angels abiding happiness unearned, still recommended owned more juvenile to win interest; which provide owned angels bland lives, earlier cursed owned other offspring with bitter headache and disability of soul and frame; which mouths law and fanciful purgatory--mouths pity and created hell--mouths brilliant guideline, and compassion multiplied through seventy space seven, and fabricated inferno; who mouths morals to alternative family and carry nothing himself; who frowns upon scandal, earlier commits them all; which discover brother without summons, formerly tries to straggle the obligation for brother's acts upon guy, instead of honorably establish it where appeal belongs, upon himself; and certainly, with altogether celestial lunacy, invites this poor, violate servant to devotion him!...

"you realize, now, that these stuff are all useless save in a image. you recognize that they are natural and callow insanities, the preposterous creations of an artistry that is not aware of its freaks--in a talk, that they are a nightmare, and you the builder of attractiveness. the thought-marks are all present; you should bear sanctioned authority earlier.

"interest is genuine, that which i retain inform to you; there is no god, no universe, no mortal match, no temporal activity, no Promised Land, no purgatory. appeal is all a thought--a bizarre and ridiculous nightmare. nothing live but you. and you are but a speculation--a transient reflection, a ineffectual hope, a dispossessed reflection, wandering depressed among the unfilled eternities!
